Right, fingers on buzzers.
Here is your first starter for ten.
Believed to date to the first century CE,
the practice known by the Latin term interpretatio germanica,
or German interpretation, refers to the naming
of what common set of proper nouns?
This practice substituted the names of local
deities for figures such as Mars, Mercury...
Days of the week.
It is days of the week, yes.
Three questions for you, UCL, on the medieval Egyptian ruler Baybars.
Baybars ruled which sultanate centred on Cairo from 1260 to 1277?
The successor of the Ayyubid sultanate, its name refers to the military
caste that controlled the state whose name comes from the Arabic for slave.
Mamluk. Mamluk.
Correct. Before his accession as sultan, Baybars
was one of the commanders in the Battle of Ain Jalut.
This Egyptian victory halted the
southwestern expansion of which empire?
The Mongol. Mongol Empire.
Correct.
Baybars was also a commander of the army that repelled the Seventh Crusade
and captured which ruler, the only king of France to be canonised?
I need a name and regnal number.
Louis IX.
It is Louis IX, yeah.
Another starter question.
In a poem noting the demise of its independence,
what city did Wordsworth describe as the eldest child of liberty?
Mary Elizabeth Coleridge mentioned it along with
Troy and Rome, stating that its "pride is nought."
Shelley called it "Ocean's
nursling", while Byron said that it was...
Athens? No, and I'm afraid
you lose five points.
..while Byron said that it once was
"the revel of the earth, the masque of Italy."
Rome? No, it was Venice.
Another starter question.
In 1828, the German chemist Friedrich Wohler published the first method for a synthesis of
an organic chemical from inorganic ones after producing which biologically important compound...
Oh, no, I was going to say rubber.
I'm afraid you lose five points.
..by combining other compounds
containing sialic acid and ammonia?
In mammals, this compound is the main pathway
for the removal of ammonia from the bloodstream.
Urea?
It is urea, yes.
Your bonuses, Imperial, are on artworks that were
created through defacing or destroying pre-existing works.
In 1953, which US artist obtained a sketch from abstract expressionist
Willem de Kooning and, with de Kooning's blessing, erased it?
The resulting blank page was then exhibited with
an inscription from the artist's partner, Jasper Johns.
Robert Rauschenberg, right?
OK, nominate Jones.
Rauschenberg.
Rauschenberg is correct.
In 2003, which British sculptor and installation artist wrapped Auguste Rodin's
The Kiss in a mile of string, calling the result The Distance, The Kiss With String Attached?
Her other works include the 1991 installation Cold Dark Matter.
Nominate Jones.
Cornelia Parker.
Correct. Dropping A Han Dynasty Urn is a 1995 photographic
triptych by which conceptual artist...? Nominate Jones.
Ai Weiwei.
Ai Weiwei is correct, yes.
Another starter question.
Dating to 1986 and 2004 respectively, A Fashionable Marriage, which critiques William Hogarth's depictions of black people, and Naming The Money,
which explores representations of black servitude, are major installations by which British artist born in Zanzibar in 1954?
In 2017, she became the oldest artist...
Lubaina Himid?
It is Lubaina Himid, yes.
Your bonuses, UCL, are on biological
terms that start with the same three letters.
In each case, identify the term
from the description given.
First, an organism or tissue that contains at least two different
sets of DNA, often from the fusion of different zygotes.
This term is also the name of a monster
in Greek myth that was killed by Bellerophon.
Chimera. Chimera.
Chimera's correct.
The cross-shaped connection produced by the crossing
over of homologous chromosomes during meiosis.
In the singular, this term has
seven letters.
So it'll begin C-H-I.
Yeah.
So...
Chi...
No. Seven letters.
No. Yeah. Chiron? Pass.
It's chiasma.
Finally, a polysaccharide that is the principal component of the outer
skeletons of insects, crabs and lobsters and the cell walls of most fungi.
Chitin.
Yes, or "kite-in".